 Digital marketing is the process of promoting and advertising products or services using various digital channels and technologies,
 which can include the internet, websites, social media platforms, videos, email, and more.


Target audience / Target market - Group of people or individual business aims to reach and engage with its marketing efforts.


Search engine -  search engine is a software program or online service that allows users to search and retrieve information from the internet
Eg - Google , DuckDuckGo , Bing , Yahoo

Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is a set of techniques and strategies aimed at improving a website's visibility and ranking on search engine results pages (SERPs). The primary goal of SEO is to increase organic (non-paid) traffic to a website by making it more relevant and attractive to search engines like Google, Bing, and Yahoo.



Relationship Marketing - Focuses on customer loyalty and long term customer engagement rather than short term customer acquisition and individual sales.
Maintaining longer term relationship with customers
Advantages - Free word of mouth promotion

Relationship marketing can play a significant role in increasing your website traffic by fostering strong and lasting connections with your audience. 

Customer Loyalty
Long term engagement
Free word of mouth marketing
Community and brand building



Economic factors influencing marketing.

Income Levels - High-income individuals may be willing to pay premium prices for quality, while lower-income consumers may seek affordability.

Inflation impacts the purchasing power of consumers. If prices rise faster than incomes, consumers may cut back on spending

Unemployment Rates: High unemployment rates can lead to reduced consumer spending, as people are concerned about job security.

Interest rates.


How long term relationship with customer helps in digital marketing ?

Customer Loyalty
Word-of-Mouth Marketing
Cross-Selling and Upselling Opportunities
Long term engagement

The term trademark refers to a recognizable insignia, phrase, word, or symbol that denotes a specific product and legally differentiates it from all other products of its kind

A patent is a type of intellectual property that gives its owner the legal right to exclude others from making, using, or selling an invention for a limited period of time in exchange for publishing an enabling disclosure of the invention

Consumer Buying Behaviour refers to the buying behaviour of final consumers -individuals & households who buy goods and services for personal consumption.

Cultural factors:
Culture
Social class

Personal factors:
Age & life-cycle
stage
Occupation
Economic circumstances
Lifestyle
Personality &self-concept

Social Factors:
Family
Roles and status

Market is a grouping of customers.

Consists all existing and potential
customers(individuals, groups, household or
organizations)

How lifestyle influence consumer buying behavior? [Classwork /assignment]
